.TH "TCP/IP Protocols" 3 "29 Jan 2010" "Version Library version 2.6" "FieldTalk Modbus Master C++ Library" \" -*- nroff -*-
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
TCP/IP Protocols \- 
.PP
The library provides two flavours of TCP/IP based Modbus protocols.  

.SS "Classes"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "class \fBMbusTcpMasterProtocol\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIMODBUS/TCP Master Protocol class. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "class \fBMbusRtuOverTcpMasterProtocol\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIEncapsulated Modbus RTU Master Protocol class. \fP"
.in -1c
.SH "Detailed Description"
.PP 
The library provides two flavours of TCP/IP based Modbus protocols. 

The MODBUS/TCP master protocol is implemented in the class \fBMbusTcpMasterProtocol\fP.
.PP
The Encapsulated Modbus RTU master protocol is implemented in the class \fBMbusRtuOverTcpMasterProtocol\fP.
.PP
Both classes provides functions to establish and to close a
.PP
TCP/IP connection to the slave as well as data and control functions which can be used after a connection to a slave device has been established successfully. For a more detailed description of the data and control functions see section \fBData and Control Functions for all Modbus Protocol Flavours\fP.
.PP
Using multiple instances of a \fBMbusTcpMasterProtocol\fP class enables concurrent protocol transfers using multiple TCP/IP sessions. They should be executed in separate threads.
.PP
See section \fBThe MODBUS/TCP Protocol\fP for some background information about MODBUS/TCP.
.PP
See section \fBUsing MODBUS/TCP Protocol\fP for an example how to use the \fBMbusTcpMasterProtocol\fP class. 
.SH "Author"
.PP 
Generated automatically by Doxygen for FieldTalk Modbus Master C++ Library from the source code.
